README.md, before:

# [TI-99/4A](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Texas_Instruments_TI-99/4A) Core for MiSTer Platform
See below for original readme

- Use either the create-misterrom.cmd file included here or the [pyTIrom](https://github.com/GHPS/pyTIrom) utility to create the full bin file.
- Requires 994aROM.BIN and 994AGROM.BIN files (speech ROMs are optional [speech working - use 5200 model in OSD]).
- Load this as Full.bin
- When loading carts, load C/G files before loading D files.


## EP994A
My TI-99/4A clone implemented with a TMS99105 CPU and FPGA (master branch).
Another version of the clone (the latest development in soft-cpu branch) includes my own
TMS9900 CPU core written in VHDL.

See the file LICENSE for license terms. At least for now (without contributors from others)
the source code is made available under the LGPL license terms.
You need to retain copyright notices in the source code.

Latest changes
--------------
Commit 2018-01-03:
- So I have been very lacy at updating this README file. There has been a ton of changes.
  Note that there are two branches, master branch contains the **TMS99105** version and soft-cpu contains the **FPGA CPU** version. 


Commit 2016-11-13:
	
- Added firmware/diskdsr.asm which is a Device Service Routine for disk I/O support. It currently
	registers DSK1 and DSK2. It support LOAD and SAVE opcodes. Support means that it will
	pass the PAB to the PC host to read by copying it to system RAM at address 0x8020.
	There is a command buffer at address 0x800A..0x8013 which is used for communication between
	the TMS99105 system and the host PC.
	
- Refactored memloader code:
	- Added disk io support. Now if memloader is started with the command "-k" it 
		will not only poll keyboard but also poll memory location updated by the DSR when
		disk I/O requests happen.
		
	- Memloader now parses command line arguments better. Output is less verbose.
		
- FPGA code now supports SAMS memory extension, currently configured to 256Kbytes.
	This required a bunch of other changes, as the scratchpad area needs to be unpaged.
	This is done by remapping the scratchpad above the 256K area used by SAMS.

Hackaday
--------
Project is documented to an extent at Hackaday and AtariAge TI-99/4A forums.

https://hackaday.io/project/15430-rc201699-ti-994a-clone-using-tms99105-cpu

AtariAge
--------
The AtariAge forum thread talks about my other FPGA project as well, but contains information about 
http://atariage.com/forums/topic/255855-ti-994a-with-a-pipistrello-fpga-board/page-8

About the directories
---------------------
**firmware** test software I used to debug the hardware. Written in assembler. Also some loading scripts.
- 2016-11-13 now here is also the diskdsr.asm assembly module, which implements a starting point for disk access. Currently it relies on support by the PC program "memloader".

**fpga** the VHDL code implementing the TI-99/4A (except the CPU).

**memloader** a program for Windows (compiled with Cygwin) to transfer data from PC to the FPGA. This program is used for a few purposes:
- load software from PC to the memory of the EP994A
- reset the EP994A
- pass keypresses from host PC to the EP994A
- 2016-11-13: poll certain memory locations to enable disk access, i.e. saving and loading 
- 2016-11-13: Now there are project files for Visual Studio 2015 community edition. This is just a great IDE and speeds up programming.

**schematics** the schematics of the protoboard (incl. CPU, clock, a buffer chip) connected to the FPGA board. Note: the schematics are in a need of an update, the current version lacks to wires:
- CPU reset from FPGA to buffer to CPU
- VDP interrupt signal from FPGA to buffer to CPU

Commit message:

Disk Support, NTSC/PAL switch, MiniMem and various bank switching options
Added Disk support for two SSSD/DSSD floppies.
MiniMem cartridge support.
Can handle cartridges up to 512K. (Core now requires SDRAM)
Support for Paged 7, 378(UberGrom) and 379 cartridges.
Can now switch between NTSC and PAL video settings.
Tweaked/Added some Keyboard Mappings.
Tweaked some timings and system clock.
Option to turn on Alpha/Caps lock on initial boot.
Utilize Keyboard LEDs for Alpha Lock and Drive activity.
SAMS memory upped to 512k and can now be disabled via OSD.

README.md, after:

# [TI-99/4A](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Texas_Instruments_TI-99/4A) Core for MiSTer Platform
See below for original readme

- Requires SDRAM Module.  Anything over 2Megs should work.
- Use either the create-misterrom.cmd file included here or the [pyTIrom](https://github.com/GHPS/pyTIrom) utility to create the full bin file.
- Requires 994aROM.BIN and 994AGROM.BIN for base functionality.
- The Disk DSR and Speech ROMs are optional [speech working - use 5200 model in OSD] but required if you plan on using the features.
- Load this as Full.bin or renamed it to boot.rom to autostart with that rom.
- Supports cartridges up to 512K
- When loading carts, load C/G files before loading D files.
- C rom files larger than 64K must be loaded with the Load Mega Cart option.
- Support for MBX, Paged7, Paged378 (UberGrom), Paged379 and MiniMem Cartridges.
- MiniMem utilizes 4K NVRAM file.  Use the MiniMem OSD sub menu to Select the NVRAM file then Load/Save to use it. A Blank 4k NVRAM.dat file is in the Releases folder.
- Single and Double Sided Floppies are supported (Single Density only).
- NTSC/PAL Video Modes are supported.
- SAMS memory (512K), can be disabled via OSD.
- Turbo may work with some Cartridges and TI Basic.  DOES NOT work with Extended Basic (XB).  YMMV

## EP994A
My TI-99/4A clone implemented with a TMS99105 CPU and FPGA (master branch).
Another version of the clone (the latest development in soft-cpu branch) includes my own
TMS9900 CPU core written in VHDL.

See the file LICENSE for license terms. At least for now (without contributors from others)
the source code is made available under the LGPL license terms.
You need to retain copyright notices in the source code.

Latest changes
--------------
Commit 2018-01-03:
- So I have been very lacy at updating this README file. There has been a ton of changes.
  Note that there are two branches, master branch contains the **TMS99105** version and soft-cpu contains the **FPGA CPU** version. 


Commit 2016-11-13:
	
- Added firmware/diskdsr.asm which is a Device Service Routine for disk I/O support. It currently
	registers DSK1 and DSK2. It support LOAD and SAVE opcodes. Support means that it will
	pass the PAB to the PC host to read by copying it to system RAM at address 0x8020.
	There is a command buffer at address 0x800A..0x8013 which is used for communication between
	the TMS99105 system and the host PC.
	
- Refactored memloader code:
	- Added disk io support. Now if memloader is started with the command "-k" it 
		will not only poll keyboard but also poll memory location updated by the DSR when
		disk I/O requests happen.
		
	- Memloader now parses command line arguments better. Output is less verbose.
		
- FPGA code now supports SAMS memory extension, currently configured to 256Kbytes.
	This required a bunch of other changes, as the scratchpad area needs to be unpaged.
	This is done by remapping the scratchpad above the 256K area used by SAMS.

Hackaday
--------
Project is documented to an extent at Hackaday and AtariAge TI-99/4A forums.

https://hackaday.io/project/15430-rc201699-ti-994a-clone-using-tms99105-cpu

AtariAge
--------
The AtariAge forum thread talks about my other FPGA project as well, but contains information about 
http://atariage.com/forums/topic/255855-ti-994a-with-a-pipistrello-fpga-board/page-8

About the directories
---------------------
**firmware** test software I used to debug the hardware. Written in assembler. Also some loading scripts.
- 2016-11-13 now here is also the diskdsr.asm assembly module, which implements a starting point for disk access. Currently it relies on support by the PC program "memloader".

**fpga** the VHDL code implementing the TI-99/4A (except the CPU).

**memloader** a program for Windows (compiled with Cygwin) to transfer data from PC to the FPGA. This program is used for a few purposes:
- load software from PC to the memory of the EP994A
- reset the EP994A
- pass keypresses from host PC to the EP994A
- 2016-11-13: poll certain memory locations to enable disk access, i.e. saving and loading 
- 2016-11-13: Now there are project files for Visual Studio 2015 community edition. This is just a great IDE and speeds up programming.

**schematics** the schematics of the protoboard (incl. CPU, clock, a buffer chip) connected to the FPGA board. Note: the schematics are in a need of an update, the current version lacks to wires:
- CPU reset from FPGA to buffer to CPU
- VDP interrupt signal from FPGA to buffer to CPU
